Accessing the full dataset
==========================

The PinSoRo dataset is a collection of multimodal (video, audio, touch
interaction) recordings of the social and communicative behavior of children
ages 4-8 years, gathered in the context of a semi-structured, tabletop play
interaction with peers or robots. The sessions were recorded in-situ at local
schools and nurseries, under a protocol approved by the Plymouth University
ethics committee.


How can I get access to the dataset?
------------------------------------


Full parents' consent has been obtained for their children' data (including
video and audio recordings) to be shared *for academic purposes only*. Due to
the privacy-sensitive nature of these recordings, we require a formal approval
from your institution's *research ethics committee* before you can access the data.

In the US, you can send us an approved protocol from your university's
Institutional Review Board (IRB).

> If your research does not require the video and audio recordings of the
> children, and only anonymised data (like the skeletons and touch interactions)
> is sufficient, a simpler procedure (that does not require ethics approval) is
> [available](get-dataset).


Guidelines for setting up an research protocol
----------------------------------------------


In order to be able to receive and analyze data collected at Plymouth University, you
will first need to file an *application for ethical approval of research involving
human participants* (IRB application in the US) with your university.

Once you submit the protocol, it will be reviewed by your university's ethics
committee. Because you will not be directly interacting with research
participants or collecting any data, your protocol will usually qualify for an
expedited review. In most cases, the ethics committee will immediately approve
your application for using our dataset. In some cases, the ethics committee may
decide they want you to clarify a few details before they approve your
application. Feel free to contact us if you encounter any problems going through
this process.

Below, we list some of the common questions you may be asked when filling out
the application and provide a brief guideline to the answers. Do not be
intimidated by the lengthy application, many of the questions will not pertain
to you because you are not collecting any data yourself. Make it very clear that
your protocol is for data analysis only - that you will not have any direct
interaction with human subjects and will only be analyzing data previously
collected under an approved protocol at Plymouth University.

### Protocol summary/description

Sample text: *This protocol will involve the analysis of an existing dataset,
which includes video, audio, and other interaction recordings of children aged
4-8 years during play interaction with a peer or a robot. All data was
previously collected at Plymouth University, under a university-approved
protocol. The parents of the participants consented to sharing their child's
video and audio data with the research community. The data does not contain any
personal identifiers that can be linked back to the subjects, except the
participants' images. The goal of our analysis will be to {insert a brief
description of you planned analysis of the data}.*

### Questions about HIPAA, DSMB and Risk

When asked, indicate that this research does NOT involve the collection of
health information, so HIPAA does not apply. If asked, indicate that the data
will NOT be reviewed by a Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB). If asked,
indicate that the study involves Minimal Risk to human subjects.

### Confidentiality/Privacy

Sample text: *All data was previously collected by researchers at the Plymouth
University, under a university-approved protocol. The parents of the
participants consented to sharing of their child's video and audio data with the
research community for academic purposes only. The data is labelled with a
unique participant code only and does not contain any identifying information,
except the participant's images. The child's age (expressed in years) is also
available.*

You will also need to describe your procedures for maintaining the
confidentiality of the data to be received: how you will safeguard the data from
access by those not authorized to do so, and how the data will be transmitted
among your research personnel. We include some sample text below, but of course
you should modify it with the specifics of how you intend to store and control
access to the data.

Sample text: *All data will be saved on a password-protected server maintained
by {insert name of your institution}. Only study personnel listed on this
application will be granted login credentials to access the directory on the
server where the data is stored. The data may also be saved on encrypted
external hard drives. No copies of the data will be distributed to anyone not
listed on this application.*

### Sample size

The current dataset includes data from 120 participants.

The number of participants is needed to generate enough data points to develop
the computational models that are at the heart of the study.

### Any other questions about human subject interaction and data collection

(e.g., Subject Recruitment, Compensation, Informed Consent, Data Collection
Plan/Duration, Inclusion/Exclusion Criteria, Potential Risk)

Suggested text: *Not applicable. There will be no direct collection of human
subject data at {insert name of your institution}. All data was previously
collected by researchers at Plymouth University, under a university-approved
protocol (see attached). The parents of the subjects have consented to sharing
their child's video and audio data with the research community.*

### Associated documents

The application will include a section where you can upload any relevant
documents. You should upload the following two documents with your application:

- [Ethics Application and Approval letter from the Plymouth
  University](docs/ethics-approval.zip)
- A copy of [the parent information sheet and consent form authorizing the
  release of the data](docs/social_robots-information-sheet+consent-form.pdf)


### The last step after the approval


Once your application has been reviewed and approved, your ethics committee will
send you a letter to that effect. Please email us a copy of your protocol along
with the approval letter. Once we receive and verify your approval, we will
email our 'green light'. At that point, we ask you to **send us a blank 2TB
hard-drive** (the most convenient option is to order it online and get it 
delivered at Plymouth University directly). We will copy and encrypt the dataset
on it, and send it back to you within a week.

Ship the hard-drive to:

```
SÃ©verin Lemaignan
Plymouth University -- B316 Portland Square
Plymouth PL4 8AA
United Kingdom
```

Your effort in following these procedures is highly appreciated!

Permitted data use
------------------

- Data received shall be saved on a secure, password-protected server or
  workstation maintained by the your home institution, and as specified in the
  relevant protocol approved by the Ethics Committee.

- Storing data on personal laptops/desktops is NOT permitted, with the exception
  of data embedded in talks/presentations.

- Storing data on a third party provider like Dropbox is NOT permitted, with the
  exception of data embedded in talks/presentations.

- Only study personnel listed on the your Ethics Committee protocol shall be
  granted access to the data.

- Data may be shown in public venues (e.g., talks, conference presentations),
  and still images of data may be included in publications.


